# Class 02 - State & Props

## [React Docs - State and Lifecycle](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html)

### Converting a Function to a Class

You can convert a function component like `Clock` to a class in five steps:

1. Create an ES6 class, with the same name, that extends `React.Component`.
2. Add a single empty method to it called `render()`.
3. Move the body of the function into the `render()` method.
4. Replace `props` with `this.props` in the `render()` body.
5. Delete the remaining empty function declaration.

### Adding Lifecycle Methods to a Class

In applications with many components, it’s very important to free up resources taken by the components when they are destroyed.

We want to set up a timer whenever the `Clock` is rendered to the DOM for the first time. This is called “mounting” in React.

We also want to clear that timer whenever the DOM produced by the `Clock` is removed. This is called “unmounting” in React.

We can declare special methods on the component class to run some code when a component mounts and unmounts. These methods are called “lifecycle methods”.

### 3 Things to Know about Using State Correctly

* Do not modify State directly - it will not re-render a component.
  * The only place where you can assign `this.state` is the constructor
* State updates may be asynchronous
  * React may batch multiple `setState()` calls into a single update for performance.
* State updates are merged
  * When you call `setState()`, React merges the object you provide into the current state.

### The Data Flows Down

Neither parent nor child components can know if a certain component is stateful or stateless, and they shouldn’t care whether it is defined as a function or a class.

This is why state is often called local or encapsulated. It is not accessible to any component other than the one that owns and sets it.

A component may choose to pass its state down as props to its child components.

## [React Docs - Handling Events](https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html)

### Handling Events

Handling events with React elements is similar to event-handling on DOM elements but with some syntax differences.

* React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase.
* With JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.

When using React, you generally don’t need to call addEventListener to add listeners to a DOM element after it is created. Instead, just provide a listener when the element is initially rendered. When you define a component using an ES6 class, a common pattern is for an event handler to be a method on the class.

## [Conditional Rendering](https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html)

In React you can create distinct components that encapsulate behavior you need. Then you can render only some of them, depending on the state of your application.

Conditional rendering in React works the same way conditions work in JavaScript. Use JS operators like `if` or the `conditional operator` to create elements representing the current state and let React update the UI to match them.

### Preventing Component from Rendering

In rare cases you might want a component to hide itself even though it was rendered by another component. To do this return `null` instead of its render output. Returning `null` from a component’s `render` method does not affect the firing of the component’s lifecycle methods. For instance `componentDidUpdate` will still be called.
