# Class 14 - Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry

## Consider the history: [That Time When Women Stopped Coding](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding)

### What occured during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

* Personal home computers were introduced around the same time as the decline of women in computer science.

### Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

* Since personal computers were largely marketed to males, they had a headstart advantage as the narrative had been that "computers are for boys." Computer science professors began to assume that their students had grown up playing with computers at home, and so had experience with them.

---------------------------------

## Review the data: [Employee breakdown of key technology companies](https://informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/)

### What three take-a-ways do you have looking at this data?

1. There is still a lot of work to be done in terms of equality in the tech field.
2. Based on this graph, the tech field is still a predominantly male industry and by quite a lot.
3. In terms of ethnic diversity, it is also exceedingly white. But the makeup of the non-white people in tech lean heavily towards people of Asian ethnicity in almost every company listed.

---------------------------------

## Ask the question: [Why diversity matters to your tech company](https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/)

### When are diversity efforts most successful?

* When they're driven by a commitment from company leaders who understand why diversity matters.

### Why do diverse companies perform better?

* Diversity makes teams smarter and more creative, and is linked to positive business outcomes.

### Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa

* To put it simply, it seems that a diverse company has more opportunities for someone to speak up and say "Hey, what about these people, what would they like/want/need?" and find ways to implement their products and/or features in ways that will please their users and attract a larger user-base.
