# Class 03 - Passing Funtions as Props

## [React Docs - Lifting State Up](https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html)

Often, several components need to reflect the same changing data. We recommend lifting the shared state up to their closest common ancestor.

Sharing state is accomplished by moving it up to the closest common ancestor of the components that need it. This is called “lifting state up”

There should be a single “source of truth” for any data that changes in a React application. Usually, the state is first added to the component that needs it for rendering. Then, if other components also need it, you can lift it up to their closest common ancestor. Instead of trying to sync the state between different components, you should rely on the top-down data flow.

## [React Docs - Lists and Keys](https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html)

In React, transforming arrays into lists of elements is nearly identical to the `map()` function. You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces.

Keys help React identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed. Keys should be given to the elements inside the array to give the elements a stable identity.

USE A KEY THAT UNIQUELY IDENTIFIES A LIST ITME AMONG ITS SIBLINGS.

Rule of thumb: Elements inside the `map()` call need keys

## [The Spread Operator](https://medium.com/coding-at-dawn/how-to-use-the-spread-operator-in-javascript-b9e4a8b06fab)

The spread operator is a useful and quick syntax for adding items to arrays, combining arrays or objects, and spreading an array out into a function’s arguments.

JavaScript, spread syntax refers to the use of an ellipsis of three dots `(…)` to expand an iterable object into the list of arguments.

The spread syntax expands an iterable object, usually an array, though it can be used on any interable, including a string.

One of the benefits of using the spread operator is that it will create a new reference to its primitive values, copying them.

The spread operator only copies first level of an array, the deeper levels can still be modified. Watch out for the "gotcha!" in shallow copies vs deep copies!
