# Class 13 - CRUD

## [Status Codes Based On REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

* The "CREATE" action is usually implemented via HTTPS `POST` method - used to create new resources or access tokens

* The "READ" action is usually implemented via HTTPS `GET` method - used to fetch resource representations.

* The "UPDATE" action is usually implemented via HTTP `PUT` or `PATCH` method.
  * `PUT` requires client to send ENTIRE representation of a resource to update it (Replace the old with a new one)
  * `PATCH` requires client only send parts of representation of a resource (Add, update, or
  delete these parts in the old version)
* The "DELETE" action can be implemented via HTTP `DELETE` method.

**1.** **In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:**

* **100’s** = Informational status.
* **200’s** = Success - Request was accepted
* **300’s** = Redirection - Requested resource isn't at the location anymore.
* **400’s** = Client error - Client information/input is invalid.
* **500’s** = Server error - Overwhelmed servers, unreachable servers, client requests triggering errors on the server.

**2.** **What is a status code 202?**

Asynchronous processing of a request - it's waiting to process

**3.** **What is a status code 308?**

Permanent redirect - Resource lives at a different URL and we *can* tell the client what it is

**4.** **What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?**

204 - Update that doesn't return data to a client, for example when just saving a currently edited document.

**5.** **What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?**

410 - Gone: Resource was deleted or moved somehow, don't know where it is.

**6.** **What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?**

403: Client has authorized but still doesn't have permissions to access the resource.

[Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw)

* Dev dependency "nodemon" allows server to refresh upon making changes to the server code without having to stop/start the server

**1.** **Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?**

Because we'll want to change it from localhost to something else when we deploy our application. Setting it as a .env variable makes it easier to change later, and keeps it secret.

**2.** **What is middleware?**

Code that runs when the server gets a request, but before it gets passed to the routes.

**3.** **What does app.use(express.json()) do?**

app.use allows the server to accept middleware - this example allows the server to accept json as a body instead of a post element or git element.

**4.** **What does the /:id mean in a route?**

It is an id parameter passed in - the colon in front means this is a param being passed in

**5.** **What is the difference beween PUT and PATCH?**

`PUT` replaces an entire old version with a whole new version, `PATCH` replaces pieces of the old version with new pieces.

**6.** **How do you make a defalut value in a schema?**

Add a "default" key into the schema object with a set value (Example: default value of a dateJoined object could use Date.now)

**7.** **What does a 500 error status code mean?**

Error on the server causing the transaction to not work - it wasn't user or client fault.

**8.** **What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?**

Status 200 tells client everything went good, whereas Status 201 confirms a resource was created successfully.

## Things I Want To Know More About

* What is "persistent storage" and how do we make it?
