# Class 04 - Classes & Objects, Recursion

## Reading

### [Classes and Objects](https://www.learnpython.org/en/Classes_and_Objects)

* *Objects* are an encapsulation of variables and functions into a single entity.
  * (A set of variables and functions grouped together into one thing is an *Object*)
* Objects get their variables and functions from *classes*.
  * *Classes* are essentially a template to create your objects.
* You can create multiple different objects that are of the same class, however each object contains independent copies of the variables defined in the class.

    ```Python
    class MyClass:
        variable = "blah"

        def function(self):
            print("This is a message inside the class.")
        
    myobjectx = MyClass()
    myobjecty = MyClass()

    myobjecty.variable = "yackity"

    print(myobjectx.variable) --> "blah"
    print(myobjecty.variable) --> "yackity"
    ```

* To access a function inside of an object you use notation similar to accessing a variable.

    ```Python
    myobjectx.function() --> Would print, "This is a message inside the class."
    ```

### [Thinking Recursively (up to Naive Recursion is Naive section)](https://realpython.com/python-thinking-recursively/)

* The essence of thinking recursively is to break down problems into smaller chunks.
  * If the current problem represents a simple case, solve it.
  * If not, divide it into subproblems and apply the same strategy to them.

* Formal definition of a recursive function:
  * A function defined in terms of itself via self-referential expressions.
    * This means the function will continue to call itself and repeat its behavior until some condition is met to return a result.
* All recursive functions share a common structure made up of two parts:
  * Base case (can be solved without further subdivision)
  * Recursive case (the large problem broken down successively into less complex ones)
* Each recursive call adds a stack frame (containing its execution context) to the call stack until we reach teh base case.
  * Then the stack begins to unwind as each call returns its results.
* In a recursive function, each recursive call has its own execution context, so to maintain state you have to either:
  * Thread the state through each recursive call so the current state is part of the current call's execution context
  * Keep the state in global scope
    * Note: The article's author, Abhirag Awasthi, prefers threading state through each recursive call because they find global mutable state to be evil.

* A data structure is recursive if it can be defined in terms of a smaller version of itself.
  * Examples: List, set, tree, dictionary
* Recursion can also be seen as self-referential function composition.
  * We apply a function to an argument, then pass that result on as an argument to a second application of the same function, and so on.
* *Recursive data structures and recursive functions go together like bread and butter.*
  * The recursive function's structure can often be modeled after the definition of the recursive data structure it takes as an input.

### *Optional - [Naive Recursion is Naive](https://realpython.com/python-thinking-recursively/#naive-recursion-is-naive) section and beyond*

### [Pytest Fixtures and Coverage](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/python-testing-pytest-fixtures-and-coverage)

----

## Bookmark/Skim

### [Pytest Fixtures](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/fixture.html)
