# Class 06 - Game of Greed

## [How to use Random Module](https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/random/how-to-use-the-random-module-in-python)

### Random

```Python
import random
print random randint(0,5)
```

* `randint` accepts two parameters, a lowest and a highest number
* If you want a larger number you can multiply it
  * `random.random() * 100`

### Choice

* Generate a random value from the sequence
  * `random.choice( ['red', 'black', 'green'] )`
* The choice function can often be used for choosing a random element from a list
  * `myList` = [2, 109, False, 10, "Lorem", 482, "Ipsum"]
  * `random.choice(myList)`

### Shuffle

* Shuffles elements in list in place so they're in a random order

```Python
from random import Shuffle
x = [[i] for i in range(10)]
shuffle(x)

# print x gives [[9], [2], [7], [0], [4], [5], [3], [1], [8], [6]]
# results will vary
```

### Randrange

* Generate a randomly selected element from range (start, stop, step)

```Python
import random
for i in range(3):
    print random.randrange(0, 101, 5)
```

---

## [What is Risk Analysis](https://www.edureka.co/blog/risk-analysis-in-software-testing/)

* Risk: The probability of any unwanted incident
* Risk analysis: the process of identifying the risks in applications or software that you build and prioritizing them to test.

**Risk magnitutde:**

* *High*: Effect would be very high and non-tolerable. Company might face loss
* *Medium*: Tolerable but not desirable. Company may suffer financially but there is limited risk.
* *Low*: it is tolerable. There lies little or no external exposure or no financial loss

**Risk Identification:**

* *Business Risks* - Comes from your company or customer, not your project
* *Testing Risks* - Be well acquainted with the platform you are working on, along with the software testing tools being used
* *Premature Release Risk* - A fair amount of knowledge to analyze the risk associateed with releasing unsatisfactory or untested software is required
* *Software Risk* - You whould be well versed with the risks associated with the software development process.

**Risk Assessment:**

* It is said that this step is way too complex and should be tackled with the utmost care. After risk identification, assessment has to be dealt programmatically.

* Three perspectives of risk assessment:
  * *Effect* - To assess risk by Effect, in case you identify a condition, event, or action and try to determine its impact

  * *Cause* - To assess risk by Cause is opposite of by Effect. Initialize scanning the problem and reach to the point that could be the most probable reason behind that.

  * *Likelihood* - To assess risk by likelihood is to say that there is a probability that a requirement won't be satisfied

* Three steps to perform Risk Analysis
  * Search the risk
  * Analyze the impact of each individual risk
  * Measures for the risk identified

---

## [Big O Notation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4cd1O4zkGw)

* Constant time ( `O(1)` ) beats linear ( `O(n)` ) IF data is sufficiently big

* 4 important rules to know with Big O:
  * If you have two different steps in your algorithm, you add up those steps.

    ```Python
    doStep1():  //  O(a)  \
                           ---- O(a + b)
    doStep2():  //  O(b)  /
    ```

  * Drop constants
  * If you have different inputs, you're usually going to use different variables to represent them
  * Drop non-dominant terms

  ---

## [Python Random](https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html)

* This module implements pseudo-random number generators for various distributions.
  * **Warning**: The pseudo-random generators of this module should not be used for security purposes. For security or cryptograpic uses, see the `secrets` module.

---

## [What is Dependency Injection](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-quick-intro-to-dependency-injection-what-it-is-and-when-to-use-it-7578c84fa88f/)

Wikipedia definition: *Dependency injection is a technique whereby one object - or static method - supplies the dependencies of another object. A dependency is an object that can be used (a service).*
