# Class 07 - Game of Greed 2

## [Python Scope](https://realpython.com/python-scope-legb-rule/)
<!-- global and nonlocal keywords, skim rest -->

Python is a dyamically-typed language

* Variables come into existence when you first assign them a value
* Functions and classes are available after using `def` or `class`
* Modules exist after you import them

* **When you reference a name, you're retrieving its contents or value**
* **When you assign a name, you're either creating that name or modifying it**

**SCOPE**:

* Global scope - The names you define in this scope are available to all your code
* Local scope - The names you define in this scope are only available or visible to the code within the scope

The names in your programs will have the scope of the block of code in which they are defined.

* When you can access the value of a given name from someplace in your code, that name is **in scope**.
* When you can't access the name, that name is **out of scope**
* Where you assign or define a name in your code determines the scope/visibility of that name

**Using the LEGB Rule for Python Scope**:

**LEGB** - Local, Enclosing, Global, Built-in

LEGB rule is kind of a name lookup procedure which determins the order that Python looks up names.

* **Local (or function) scope** - code block/body of any Python function or lambda expression. This scope contains the names you define inside the function. These names will only be visible from the code of the function. It's created at function call, *not* at function definition.
* **Enclosing (or nonlocal) scope** - special scope that only exists for nested functions. If the local scope is an inner or nested function, the enclosing scope is the scope of the outer or enclosing function.

* **Global (or module) scope** - top-most scope in a Python program, script, or module. This scope contains all the names that you define at the top level of a program or module. Visible from everywhere in your code.
* **Built-in scope** - a special Python scope that's created or loaded whenever you run a script or open an interactive session. Contains names such as keywords, functions, exceptions, and other attributes that are built into Python. Names are also available from everywhere in your code. Automatically loaded by Python when you run a program or script.

You can avoid name collisions by properly using the local Python scope. This also makes functions more self-contained and creates maintainable program units. Since you can't change local names from remote places in your code, your programs will be easier to debu, read and modify.

* You can inspect the names and parameters of a function using `.__code__` which is an attribute that holds info on the function's internal code.

* On the `square()` function, using:
  * `square.__code__.co_varnames` returns `('base', 'result')`

**Modifying the Behavior of a Python Scope**:

There are ways to modify the standard Python behavior. Python provides two keywords that allow you to modify the content of global and nonlocal names:

* `global`
* `nonlocal`

**The `global` statement**:

* With this statement, you can define a list of names that are going to be treated as global names
* The statment consists of the `global` keyword followed by one or more names separated by commas. You can use mutliple `global` statements with a name or list of names.
* All the names you list in a `global` statment will be mapped to the global or mdoule scope in which you define them.

```Python
>>> counter = 0 # A global name
>>> def update_counter():
...    global counter # Declare counter as global
...    counter = counter + 1 # Successfully update the counter
...
>>> update_counter()
>>> counter
1
>>> update_counter()
>>> counter
2
>>> update_counter()
>>> counter
3
```

**Note**: The use of `global` is considered bad practice in general. If you find yourself using `global` to fix problems like the one above, then stop and think if there is a better way to write your code. Example - you can try to write a self-contained function that relies on local names rather than on clobal names as follows:

```Python
>>> global_counter = 0 # A global name
>>> def update_counter(counter)
...    return counter + 1 # Rely on a local name
...
>>> global_counter = update_counter(global_counter)
>>> global_counter

1
>>> global_counter = update_counter(global_counter)
>>> global_counter
2
>>> global_counter = update_counter(global_counter)
>>> global_counter
3
```

**The `nonlocal` statement**:

---

## [Don't be CONFUSED by BIG O notation anymore!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Uqawfl0VHQ)

**Time complexity & Space Complexity**: How long it takes to run, how much memory it takes up while it's doing/how many computer resources it's allocating to itself.

* As the amount of data you run through the algorithm increases, how long does it take the algorithm to respond?

* Usually Big O Notation will give you "worst case scenario"
  * O(1) - Constant running time
  * O(log n) - Logarithmic running time
  * O(n) - Linear running time
  * O(n logn) - Log-Linear running time
  * O(n^k) - Polynomial running time

---

## [Rolling Dice Examples](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Basic_Programming_With_Python#Program_Example_1_3)
