# Class 34 - API Deployment

## [Django Settings Best Practices](https://djangostars.com/blog/configuring-django-settings-best-practices/)

### Managing Django Settings: Issues

* Different Environments
* Sensitive Data
* Sharing settings between team members
* Django settings are a Python code

### Setting Configuration: Different Approaches

* settings_local.py
  * **Pros:**
    * Secrets not in VCS
  * **Cons:**
    * `settings_local.py` is not in VCS, so you can lose some of your Django environment settings
    * The Django settings file is a Python code, so `settings)local.py` can have some non-obvious logic
    * You need to have `settings_local.example` (in VCS) to share the default configurations for developers
* Separate settings filel for each environment
  * **Pros:**
    * All environments are in VCS
    * It's easy to share settings between developers
  * **Cons:**
    * You need to find a way to handle secret passwords and tokens
    * "Inheritance" of settings can e hard to trace and maintain
* Environment variables
  * **Pros:**
    * Configuration is separated from code
    * Environment parity - you have the same code for all environment
    * No inheritance in settings, and cleaner and more consistent code
    * There is a theoretical grounding for using environment variables.
  * **Cons:**
    * You need to handle sharing default config between developers

### 12 Factors

* 12 Factors is a collection of recommendations on how to build distributed web-apps that will eb easy to deploy and scale in the Cloud. It was created by Heroku, and consists of twelve parts:
  * Codebase
  * Dependencies
  * Config
  * Backing services
  * Build, release, run
  * Processes
  * Port binding
  * Concurrency
  * Disposability
  * Dev/prod parity
  * Logs
  * Admin processes

  * In context of this article we're interested in the *Configuration* part. Its main rule is to **store configuration in the environment**. Following this recommendation will give us strict separation of config from code.

### django-environ

* We see that environment variables are the perfect place to store settings. Use `django-environ`. Technically it's a merge of:
  * envparse
  * honcho
  * dj-database-url
  * dj-search-url
  * dj-config-url
  * django-cache-url
* This app gives a well-functioning API for reading values from environment variables or text files, handful type conversion, etc.

### Setting Structure

* Instead of splitting settings by environments, you can split them by the source: Django, third-party apps (Celery, DRF, etc.), and your custom settings.

### Naming Conventions

* Naming variables is one of the most complex parts of development. So is naming of settings. We can't imply on Django or third-party applications, but we can follow these simple rules for our custom (project) settings:
  * Give meaningful names to your settings
  * Always use theprefix with the project name for your custom (project) settings
  * Write descriptions for your settings in comments

### Django Settings: Best Practices

* Keep settings in environment variables
* Write default values for production configuration (excluding secret keys and tokens)
* Don't hardcode sensitive settings, and don't put them in VCS
* Split settings into groups: Django, third-party, project
* Follow naming conventions for custom (project) settings

---

## [SSH Tutorial](https://www.hostinger.com/tutorials/ssh-tutorial-how-does-ssh-work)

* SSH --> Secure Shell
  * Remote administration protocol that allows users to control and modify their remote servers over the internet.
  * Created as a secure replacement for unencrypted Telnet
  * Uses cryptographic techniques to ensure communication to/from server happens encrypted.
  * Provides a mechanism for:
    * authenticating a remote user
    * transferring inputs from client to host
    * relaying output back to client

### How Does SSH Work

* On Linux/Mac = simple
* On Windows = utilize an SSH client to open SSH connections.
  * Most popular SSH client is PuTTY
* The SSH command consists of 3 distinct parts

   ```Python
    ssh {user}@{host}
    ```

  * SSH key command - instructs system you want to open an encrypted Secure Shell Connection.
  * **{user}** - represents account you want to access
    * Example: *root user*, essentially system administrator with complete rights to modify anyting on the system
  * **{host}** - refers to the computer you want to access
    * Can be an IP address (*e.g. `244.235.23.19`*) or a domain name (*e.g. `www.xyzdomain.com`*)
  * When you hit enter - prompted to enter password for the requested account.
    * When you type it in, nothing will appear on the screen but your password is being transmitted.
    * Once you're done typing hit enter again.
    * If password is correct you will be greeted with a remote terminal window.

### Understanding Different Encryption Techniques

* The significant advantage offered by SSH is the use of encryption to ensure secure transfer of information between host and client.
  * **Host** refers to the remote server you are trying to access
  * **Client** is the computer you are using to access the host
  * There are three different encryption technologies used by SSH:
    * Symmetrical encryption
    * Asymmetrical encryption
    * Hashing

#### Symmetric Encryption

* A form of encryption where secret key is used for both encryption and decryption by both the cient and the host.
  * Anyone possessing the key can decrypt the message being transferred
  * Often called **shared key** or **shared secret** encryption.
  * Usually one key that is used, sometimes a pair of keys where one key can easily be calculated using the other key
* Used to encrypt the entire commnication during an SSH session.
* Both client and server get secret key using an agreed method
  * Resultant key is never disclosed to any third party
* Process of creating a symmetric key is carried out by a **key exchange algorithm*
  * Key is never transmitted between client and host.
* Secret token specific to each SSH session and is generated prior to client authentication.
* Once the key has been generated, all packets moving between the two machines must be encrypted

#### Asymmetric Encryption

* Uses two separate keys for encryption and decryption.
  * Known as the **public key** and the **private key**
    * **Public key** - openly distributed and shared with all parties
    * **Private key** - cannot be mathematically computed from the public key
  * Together they form a **public-private key pair**

#### Hashing

* Never meant to be decrypted.
* Generates a unique value of a fixed length for each input that shows no clear trend which can be exploited.
* Practically impossible to reverse
  * Easy to generate hash from input, but impossible to generate input from hash.

### How does SSH Work With These Encryption Techniques

* Making use of a client-server model to allow for authentication of two remote systems and encryption of the data between them
* SSH operates on TCP port 22 by default
* The host (server) listens on port 22 for incoming connections
* It organizes secure connection by authenticating the client and opening correct shell environment if verification successful
* Client must begin the SSH connection by:
  * initiating the TCP handshake with server
  * ensuring secured symmetric connection
  * verifying whether identity displayed by the server match previous records (typically recorded in an RSA key store file)
  * presenting the required user credentials to authenticate the connection
* Two stages to establishing a connection:
  * Both systems must agree upon encryption standards to protect future communications
  * User must authenticate themselves. If credentials match, user is granted access.

#### Session Encryption Negotiation

#### Authenticating the User

## Bookmark/Skim

### [White Noise](http://whitenoise.evans.io/en/stable/)

### [IaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_a_service)

### [PaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_as_a_service)

### [CORS](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing)
