# Class 13 - Linear Regression

## [Linear Regression in Python](https://realpython.com/linear-regression-in-python/)

### WHAT

* f(x) = b<sub>0</sub> + b<sub>1x</sub>

| Value | Description|
| --- | --- |
| b<sub>0</sub> (intercept) | Shows where the estimated regression l ine crosses the y-axis |
| b<sub>1</sub> | Determines the slope |

* Linear regression is one of the fundamental statistical and machine learning techniques.

* Regression searches for relationships among variables.

* Linear regression is probably one of the most important and widely used regression techniques. It's one of the simplest regression methods.

---

### HOW

* Dependent features are called the **dependent variables, outputs, or responses** (y variable, response variable)

* The independent features are called the **independent variables, inputs, or predictors** (x variable, explanatory variable)

* It is common practice to denote the outputs with y and inputs with x

### WHY

* You need regression to answer whether and how some phenomenon influences the other or how seeral variables are related.
  * Example: to determine *if* and *to what extent* the experience or gender impact salaries

* You'll probably need it for statistics, machine learning, scientific computing.
  * Used in many fields: economy, computer science, social sciences, and so on

---

## [How to Run Linear Regression in Python](http://bigdata-madesimple.com/how-to-run-linear-regression-in-python-scikit-learn/)

* You can do linear regression using numpy, scipy, stats model, and scikit learn.
* Scikit learn is for machine learning.

Exploring the Data Set

* Import required Python libraries into Notebook

    ```Python
    %matplotlib inline

    import numpy as np
    import pandas as pd
    import scipy.stats as stats
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import sklearn
    ```

* Access data using *scikit*learn. Import data set and store it in a variable.

    ```Python
    from sklearn.datasets import load_boston
    boston = load_boston()
    ```

* The object is a dictionary, so you can explor the keys of the dictionary.

    ```Python
    boston.keys()
    ['data', 'feature_names', 'DESCR', 'target']

    boston.data.shape
    (506, 13)
    ```

* Convert into a Pandas dataframe
