# Class 35 - Graphs

## [Graphs](https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/data_structures_and_algorithms/Code_401/class-35/resources/graphs.html)

A graph is a non-linear data structure

* Collection of vertices (or nodes) potentially connected by line segments (edges)

**Terminology**:

| Term | Definition |
| --- | --- |
| Vertex | Also called a node. Data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices. |
| Edge | Connection between two vertices (nodes) |
| Neighbor | Adjancent nodes - connected by an edge |
| Degree | Number of edges connected to a vertex |
| Sparse graph | Has few connections |
| Dense graph | Has many connections |

**Directed VS Undeirected**:

* Undirected:
  * Each edge is undirected or bi-directional.
  * Does not move in any direction

* Directed Graphs (Digraphs):
  * Every edge is directed - each node is directed at another node with a specific requirement of what node should be referenced next.

**Complete VS Connected VS Disconnected**:

There are three different types of graphs depending on how connected the graphs are to other nodes/vertices.

* Complete Graphs:
  * When all nodes are connected to all other nodes.
* Connected Graphs:
  * All vertices/nodes have at least one edge (connection to another node/vertex)
* Disconnected Graphs:
  * Some vertices may not have edges
  * Standalone nodes are also known as islands

**Acyclic VS Cyclic**:

* Cyclic Graph:
  * Graph that has cycles
    * A cycle is when a node can be traversed through and potentially end back at itself
    * A cycle is defined as a path of a positive length that starts and ends at the same vertex

* Acyclic Graph:
  * Directed graph without cycles
  * A directed acyclic graph is also called a DAG
    * This can also be represented as a **tree**
  
**Graph Representation**:

We represent graphs through adjacency matrix and adjacency list.

* Adjacency Matrixx
  * Represented through a two-dimensional array.
  * If there are *n* vertices, we are looking at an *n x n* Boolean matrix
  * Each row & column represents each vertex of the data structure.
    * The elements of both the column and row must add up to 1 if there is an edge that connects the two, or 0 if not.
  * In an adjacency matrix, an undirected graph will always be symmetric. This is not the case for a directed graph.

* Adjacency List
  * The most common way to represent graphs
  * Collection of linked lists or array that lists all of the other vertices that are connected.
  * Make it easy to view if one vertex connects to another

**Weighted Graphs**:

* A weighted graph has numbers assigned to its edges.
  * These numbers are called weights.

**Traversals**:

Traversals in graphs are like those of trees.

* Breadth First:
  * Uses a queue
  * Starting at a specific vertex/node.
  * Node must be specified when calling the `BreadthFirst()` method
  * Traversing a graph that has cycles will result in an infinite loop <-- BAD!
    * To prevent infinite loops, we need to have a way to keep track of whether a vertex has been "visited" before. -- Add the previously unvisited vertex to a "visited" set so we know not to visit it again as traversal continues
  * ALGORITHM:
    * `Enqueue` the declared start node into the Queue
    * Create a loop that will run while the node still has nodes present
    * `Dequeue` the first node from the queue
    * If the `Dequeued` node has unvisited child nodes, add the unvisited children to the `visited` set and insert them into the queue.
  * **NOTE**:
    * If there are any disconnected nodes, they will not be traversed.
    * Breadth-first only outputs nodes that are connected in some relation to the root that you pass in

* Depth First:
  * Uses a stack
  * ALGORITHM:
    * `Push` root node into the stack
    * Start a while loop while the stack is not empty
    * `Peek` at the top node in the stack
    * If the top node has unvisited children, mark the top node as visited then `Push` any unvisited children back into the stack.
    * If the top node does not have any unvisited children, `Pop` that node off the stack
    * Repeat until the stack is empty

**Real World Uses Of Graphs**:

Graphs are extremely popular when it comes to uses:

* GPS and mapping
* Driving directions
* Social networks
* Airline traffic
* Netflix uses graphs for suggestions of products
