# Class 03 - FileIO & Exceptions

## Reading

### [Read & Write Files In Python](https://realpython.com/read-write-files-python/)

* Reading & writing files is one of the most common tasks you can do with Python

* A file is a contiguous set of bytes used to store data.
  * The data is organized in a specific format and can be anything as ssimple as a text file or as complicated as a proram executable.
  * These byte files are translated into binary 1 and 0 for easier processing by the computer

* Most modern files are composed of 3 main parts:
  * Header - metadata about contents of file (name, size, type, etc)
  * Data - contents of the file as written by creator
  * End of file (EOF) - special character that indicates end of file

* Representation of new line or line ending is often a problem encountered when working with file data. Be prepared for this!

* An encoding is a translation from byte data to human readable characters.
  * Two most common encodings are ASCII and UNICODE formats
    * ASCII is a subset of Unicode.
  Parsing a file with the incorrect character encoding can lead to failures or misrepresentation of characters.

* When opening a file, the second positional argument is `mode` - 'r' stands for read-only mode.

* **Don't forget to close your files properly!**
  * The `with` statement example below automatically takes care of closing the file once it leaves the `with` block even in cases of error. (This is highly recommended as it allows for cleaner code and makes handling any unexpected errors easier for you.)

    ```Python
    with open('dog_breeds.txt', 'r') as reader:
    # Further file processing goes here
    ```
* A file object is "an object exposing a file-oriented API (with methods such as `read()` or `write()`) to an underlying resource. There are three different categories of file objects:
  * Text files (most common one you'll encounter)
  * Buffered binary files
  * Raw binary files

### [Exceptions In Python](https://realpython.com/python-exceptions/)

* A Python program terminates as soon as it encounters an error, which could be a *syntax error* or an *exception*.

* Syntax errors occur when the parser detects an incorrect statement. (An extra bracket, something like that)

* An exception error occurs when syntactically correct Python code results in an error.
  * Python details what *type* of exception error you ran into

* We can use `raise` to throw an exception if a condition occurs. Example:

    ```Python
    x = 10
    if x > 5:
        raise Exception('x should not exceed 5. The value of x was: {}'.format(x))
    ```

* If we don't want the program to crash when an exception error occurs, we need to **handle the exception**.

* To handle exceptions, use `try` and `except` blocks.
  * Python executes code following the `try` statement as a "normal" part of the program. The code that follows the `except` statement is the program's response to any exceptions in the preceding `try` clause

  * Catching `Exception` hides all errors, even those which are completely unexpected.
    * Avoid bare `except` clauses in your Python programs. Instead, refer to *specific exception classes* you want to catch and handle.

* Using the `else` statement instructs a program to execute a certain block of code ONLY in the absence of exceptions.

* Imagine that you always had to implement some sort of action to clean up after executing your code. Python enables this with the `finally` clause.

TO SUMMARIZE:

* `raise` allows you to throw an exception at any time
* `assert` enables you to verify if a certain condition is met and throw an exception if it isn't.
* In the `try` clause, all statements are executed until an exception is encountered.
* `except` is used to catch and handle the exception(s) that are encountered in the `try` clause
* `else` lets you code sections that should run only when no exceptions are encountered in the `try` clause
* `finally` enables you to execute sections of code that should always run, with or without any previously encountered exceptions.

## Additional Resources

### [Read & Write Files In Python - Companion Video](https://realpython.com/courses/reading-and-writing-files-python/)

### [Reading and Writing Files in Python Quiz](https://realpython.com/quizzes/read-write-files-python/)
