# Class 36 - DSA Review

## [Whiteboard Advice](https://hackernoon.com/the-best-whiteboard-interview-advice-i-ever-received-3ebbfa72e4a)

This article says the best technical interview advice they can give is to communicate, communicate, communicate.

* Restate the question
* Ask about edge cases
* Ask about test cases
* Write Pseudocode and ask if it makes sense
* Write the actual code and ask if it looks good
* Stuck? Ask for help!
* Communicate prior to the interview

---

## [7 Tips](https://hackernoon.com/the-best-whiteboard-interview-advice-i-ever-received-3ebbfa72e4a)

* Take a few minutes
  * Wait until the interviewer is done explaining the problem, ask any clarifying questions, then tell your interviewer "If it's okay with you, I'm just going to take a minute or two here and think about the problem, and then I'll start talking"
  * Think through the basics of the problem, decide on an approach, then re-engage the interviewer, letting them know what you've concluded.
* Write down the steps of the solution
* Write pseudocode first
* Don't sweat the small stuff
* Sit down. Be humble.
* Come prepared
  * **Book recommendation**: Cracking the Coding Interview by Gail Laakman McDowell
* Review your work
  * If you have extra time after coming up with a solution, review your code as you would in a peer review. Focus on:
    * Algorithmic efficiency
    * Correctness

---

## [Engineering Interview Process Deconstructed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdXAUst8bdo)

The point isn't to test a candidate's knowledge of an algorithm, but to see their problem-solving process.

The interview process should be a predictive way to demonstrate a candidate's intelligence in a simplified way.

A better question to ask in an interview is on the candidate has not done before. It's not about memorizing techniques, but more so about seeing the process. If the candidate has done it before, it's a recitation and not a problem-solving scenario.
