# Class 37 - React 1

## **ES6 Overview**

### [ES6 Syntax & Feature Overview](https://www.taniarascia.com/es6-syntax-and-feature-overview/)

| Keyword | Scope | Hoisting | Can Be Reassigned | Can Be Redeclared |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `var` | Function Scope | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| `let` | Block scope | No | Yes | No |
| `const` | Block scope | No | No | No |

* `const` is not immutable
  * all uppercase by convention

* **Arrow Functions**:

  * Shorter way of creating function expression.
    * They do not have their own `this`
    * Do not have prototypes
    * Cannot be used for constructors
    * Should not be used as object methods

* **Template Literals**:
  * Concatenation/string interpolation:
  * Multi-line strings:
    * Whitespace is preserved in multi-line template literals.

* **Implicit Returns**:
  * The `return` keyword is implied and can be omitted if using arrow functions without a block body

* **Key/Property Shorthand**:
  * Shorter notation for assigning properties to variables of the same name

* **Method Definition Shorthand**:
  * The `function` keyword can be omitted when assigning methods on an object

* **Destructuring (Object Matching)**:
  * Use curly brackets to assign properties of an object to their own variable

* **Array Iteration (Looping)**:
  * A more concise syntax for iteration through arrays and other iterable objects

* **Default Parameters**:
  * Functions can be initialized with default parameters, which will be used only if an argument is not invoked through the function

* **Spread Syntax**:
  * Can be used to expand an array
  * Can be used for function arguments

* **Classes/Constructor Functions**:
  * `class` syntax on top of the prototype-based constructor function

* **Inheritance**:
  * The `extends` keyword creates a subclass

* **Modules - Export/Import**:
  * Modules can be created to export and import code between files

* **Promises/Callbacks**:
  * Promises represent the completion of an asynchronous function. They can be used as an alternative to chaining functions.

---

## **React**

### [Hello World](https://www.taniarascia.com/es6-syntax-and-feature-overview/)

* React is a JavaScript library

### [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

* JSX is a syntax extension to JavaScript
  * Use it to describe what the UI should look like
* JSX produces React "elements"
* React doesn't require using JSX but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code.
  * It also allows React to show more useful error and warning messages

### [Rendering Elements](https://reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html)

* Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps.
* An element describes what you want to see on the screen
* Unlike browser DOM elements, React elements are plain objects.
  * React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements
* Elements are what **components** are made of.
* Applications built with just React usually have a single root DOM node
  * To render a React element into a root DOM node, pass both to `ReactDOM.render()`
* React elements are immutable.
  * Once you create an element, you can't change its children or attributes.
  * An element is like a single frame in a movie - it represents the UI at a certain point in time
  * The only way to update the UI is to create a new element and pass it to `ReactDOM.render()`
* React only updates what's necessary

### [Components & Props](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html)

* Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces and think about each piece in isolation.
* Components are like JavaScript functions - they accept arbitrary inputs (called "props") and return React elements describing what should appear on the screen.
* Always start component names with a capital letter
  * React treats components starting with lowercase letters as DOM tags.
* Props are Read-Only
* All React components must act like pure functions with respect to their props.

### [State & Lifecycle](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html)

### [Handling Events](https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html)

---

## **Tailwind CSS**

### [Utility First CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first)

With Tailwind, you style elements by applying pre-existing classes directly in your HTML

This allows us to implement a completely custom component design without writing a single line of custom CSS.

**Important Benefits**:

* You aren't wasting energy inventing class names
* Your CSS stops growing
* Making changes feels safer

**Why not just use inline styles**?

* Designing with constraints
  * With inline styles, every value is a magic number. With utilities, you're choosing styles from a predefined design system which makes it easier to build visually consistent UIs
* Responsive design
  * You can't use media queries in inline styles, but you can use Tailwind's `responsive utilities` to build fully responsive interfaces easily
* Hover, focus, and other states
  * Inline styles can't target states like hover or focus, but Tailwind's `state variants` make it easy to style those states with utility classes

**Maintainability**:

* The biggest maintainability concern when using a utility-first approach is managing commonly repeated utility combinations.
  * This is solved by `extracting components` usually as template partials or components.
  * You can use Tailwind's `@apply` feature to create CSS abstractions around common utility patterns
* Maintaining a utility-first CSS project turns out to be a lot easier than maintaining a large CSS codebase, simply because HTML is so much easier to maintain than CSS.

### [Tailwind In 15 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zIuAyLZPH0)

* A utility-first CSS framework for rapidly building custom designs
* Install tailwind to codepen
  * Add external stylesheets (search Tailwind)
* Bootstrap:
  * a little harder to customize styling
* Tailwind:
  * NEVER WRITE CUSTOM CSS
  * AVOID WRITING !important

* Use `@apply` in CSS to keep html page clean

---

## **Next.js**

### [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/create-nextjs-app)

Next.js is a React Framework.

To build a complete web app with React from scratch:

* Code has to be bundled using a bundler like webpack and transformed using a compiler like Babel
* You need to do production optimizations such as code splitting
* You might want to statically pre-render some pages for performance and SEO. You might also want to use server-side rendering or client-side rendering.
* You might have to write some server-side code to connect your React app to your data store.

For these things, you can use the Next.js Framework.

**Tutorial Setup**:

* Install Node.js version 10.13 or later
* Create a Next.js app
  * run `npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/learn-starter"`
  * the tool called `create-next-app` bootstraps a Next.js app for you and uses a template.
* Run the development server
  * `cd nextjs-blog`
  * `npm run dev`
  * This starts your Next.js app's "development server" on port 3000
  * Check in your browser at http://localhost:3000 to see if it's running
* Welcome to Next.js
  * In your browser you should see the starter template page with helpful info about Next.js
* Editing the page
  * Make sure the Next.js development server is still running
  * Open `pages/index.js` with your text editor
  * Find the text that says **"Welcome to"** under the `<h1>` tag and change it to **"Learn"**
  * Save the file
    * As soon as you save the file, the browser automatically updates the page with the new text.
    * The Next.js development server has Fast Refresh enabled.

### [Why to use Next.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtgbaKBhdkk)

5 Reasons to use Next.js are:

* Background
  * Next.js gives you the choice if you want to render on server-side or client-side
  * Allows you to choose which data-fetching strategy you want to use
* Performance
  * Abstracts a lot of the complexity away from building a React App
  * File system based routing allows you to scale your application
* Developer Experience
  * React Fast-Refresh - allows the React state to be preserved when making changes to components
  * Debugging modal
  * Many features available
  * CSS and SaaS support
* Deployment
  * Vercel is a great option for deployment
  * Anywhere that has a Node server will be able to host your Next.js project
    * AWS
    * Self-host
  * Support for redirects and rewrites directly in the platform
* Community
  * Github discussions are very active
